Add Parachain Parameters and More Context for Auctions (#3026)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-auction.md

that point would win.

When candle auctions are used online, they require a random number to decide the moment of
termination. Parachain slot auctions differ slightly from a normal candle auction in that it does not 
use the random number to decide the duration of its opening phase. 

The candle auction on Polkadot is split into two parts: the *opening period* which is in 
effect immediately after the auction starts. This period lasts for one day and eighteen hours and 
serves as a buffer time for parachain candidates to setup their initial bids, and likely start executing 

> their strategy on how to win the slot auction. During the opening phase, bids will continue to be accepted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
their strategy on how to win the slot auction. During the opening phase, bids will continue to be accepted, but they do not have any effect on the outcome of the auction.
```

> During the ending period, later bids have a higher probability of losing since they are retroactively 

Reviewer: I'd suggest removal of this sentence "During the ending period, later bids have a higher probability of losing since they are retroactively..." altogether. The next paragraph formally introduces the ending period. Also, the sentence _later bids have high probability of losing_ is a bit vague. The probability of winning the auction is equal to the **number of blocks with a winning bid** divided by the **total number of blocks in the ending period**.

Author: Addressed

Reviewer: I still see this factually misleading statement that might need to be rephrased - - "During the ending period, 
later bids have a higher probability of losing since they are retroactively determined close moment may 
be found to have preceded the time that a bid was submitted."

A statement like this would remove the ambiguity -
"The probability of winning the auction is equal to the number of blocks with a winning bid divided by the total number of blocks in the ending period."

determined close moment may be found to have preceded the time that a bid was submitted. 

The opening period then transitions into an *ending period* of five days, where the auction is subject 
to end based on the candle auction mechanism. 

The auction’s ending time can be any time within this ending period, and is automatically and randomly 
chosen by the [Verifiable Random Function (VRF)](learn-randomness.md##vrf). The random ending is managed 
by propagating through the entire ending period, where a snapshot is taken at each block within the 
ending period to capture the winners during that block. At the end of the period, one of the snapshots 

> is randomly selected to determine the winner of the auction.

Reviewer: This would be a good place to discuss the probability aspect of winning the auction.

Author: Updated

> This process is executes six hours right after the ending period. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process is executed within the next epoch (six hours) right after the ending period. 
```

that point would win.

When candle auctions are used online, they require a random number to decide the moment of
termination. Parachain slot auctions differ slightly from a normal candle auction in that it does not 
use the random number to decide the duration of its opening phase. 

The candle auction on Polkadot is split into two parts: the *opening period* which is in 
effect immediately after the auction starts. This period lasts for one day and eighteen hours and 
serves as a buffer time for parachain candidates to setup their initial bids, and likely start executing 
their strategy on how to win the slot auction. During the opening phase, bids will continue to be accepted, 
but they do not have any effect on the outcome of the auction.

The opening period then transitions into an *ending period* of five days, where the auction is subject 
to end based on the candle auction mechanism. 

The auction’s ending time can be any time within this ending period, and is automatically and randomly 

> chosen by the [Verifiable Random Function (VRF)](learn-randomness.md##vrf). During the ending period, 

Author: ```suggestion
chosen by the [Verifiable Random Function (VRF)](learn-randomness.md##vrf). 
```

> later bids have a higher probability of losing since they are retroactively determined close moment may 

Author: ```suggestion
"The probability of winning the auction is equal to the number of blocks with a winning bid divided by the total number of blocks in the ending period." 
```

> be found to have preceded the time that a bid was submitted. The random ending is managed 

Author: ```suggestion
The random ending is managed 
```

termination.

Parachain slot auctions differ slightly from a normal candle auction in that it does not use
the random number to decide the duration of its opening phase. 

> The candle auction on Polkadot is split into two main parts: the *opening period* which is in 

Reviewer: To keep things uniform across the websites - https://polkadot.network/auctions/
```suggestion
The candle auction on Polkadot is split into two parts: the *starting period* which starts 
```

Author: Opening period would be more accurate in auction terms. I believe it is referenced in the code as such too. Seems we should become uniform 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25497083/155256403-c446dd0e-d500-47b8-a933-9e2f1a381f69.png)

Author: The opening period is in play right after the auction "starts", but that start (as in, the official start of the auction) is an instant of time, so "starting period" doesn't seem as accurate

Reviewer: Sounds good. Then this https://polkadot.network/auctions/ link will need an update

> effect immediately after the auction has started which is designed as a buffer-like time for parachain 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
immediately after the auction begins. This period lasts for 1 day and 18 hours and serves as a buffer for parachain 
```

Author: - Important to describe _buffer_, changed to just "buffer time"
- Added the rest of the suggestion

> candidates to setup their initial bids, and likely start executing their stragtey on how to win a slot 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
candidates to setup their initial bids, and likely start executing their strategy on how to win the slot 
```

Author: Addressed

auction. So during the open phase, bids will continue to be accepted, but later bids have higher 

> probability of losing since the retroactively determined close moment may be found to have preceded the 

Reviewer: This does not seem right. Bids during the starting period have no effect on the final result

Author: Why wouldn't they?

Reviewer: Like you already mentioned, it is a warm up phase where people come up with strategy to win the auction. The probability of winning kicks in once the ending period starts. Bids placed during opening period do not have effect on the outcome. If you were referring to the ending period here, then it would have made sense. Ending period is mentioned in the next section of the article, as I see it.

Reviewer: @DannyS03 Let me know if you are waiting for more input on this. I can request someone else to review this PR

Author: Gotcha, updated the content to clarify

time that a bid was submitted. 

> The opening period then transitions into an *ending period*, where the auction is subject to end based on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The starting period then transitions into an *ending period*, where the auction continues for five days.
```

Author: Incorporated suggestion

> the candle auction mechanism. The random ending is managed by propagating through the entire ending period, 

Reviewer: Consider replacing these three lines with this content to accurately portray what happens
```suggestion
The auction’s ending time can be any time within this ending period, and is automatically and randomly chosen by the [Verifiable Random Function (VRF)](learn-randomness.md##vrf). This process is executes six hours right after the ending period. **The parachain candidate with the highest bid at the ending time chosen by the VRF wins the slot auction**. 

> [Crowdloan contributions](learn-crowdloans.md##supporting-a-crowdloan-campaign) cannot be made during these six hours when the winning block for the auction is being determined on-chain.  

With one day and eighteen hours for the starting period, five days for the ending period (candle auction phase) and six hours for determining the auction winner, a parachain auction on Polkadot lasts exactly one week from the start.
```

Author: Incorporated suggestion
